This software is open source software available under the BSD-3 license.

Copyright (c) 2022 Triad National Security, LLC. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2022 Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2022 UT-Battelle, LLC. All rights reserved.


Copyright (c) 2022 Triad National Security, LLC. This program was produced
under U.S. Government contract 89233218CNA000001 for Los Alamos National
Laboratory (LANL), which is operated by Triad National Security, LLC for the
U.S. Department of Energy/National Nuclear Security Administration. All rights
in the program are reserved by Triad National Security, LLC, and the U.S.
Department of Energy/National Nuclear Security Administration. The Government
is granted for itself and others acting on its behalf a nonexclusive, paid-up,
irrevocable worldwide license in this material to reproduce, prepare derivative
works, distribute copies to the public, perform publicly and display publicly,
and to permit others to do so.

Copyright (c) 2022 Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC. This work was
produced under the auspices of the U.S. Department of Energy by Lawrence
Livermore National Laboratory under Contract DE-AC52-07NA27344. This work was
prepared as an account of work sponsored by an agency of the United States
Government. Neither the United States Government nor Lawrence Livermore
National Security, LLC, nor any of their employees makes any warranty,
expressed or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the
accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product,
or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately
owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or
service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise does not
necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by
the United States Government or Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC. The
views and opinions of authors expressed herein do not necessarily state or
reflect those of the United States Government or Lawrence Livermore National
Security, LLC, and shall not be used for advertising or product endorsement
purposes.

Copyright 2020 UT-Battelle. LLC. This technology acquired under license from
UT-Battelle, LLC, the management and operating contractor of the Oak Ridge
National Laboratory acting on behalf of the U.S. Department of Energy under
Contract No. DE-AC05-00OR22725. The United States Government and UT-Battelle,
LLC make no representations and disclaim all warranties, both expressed and
implied.  There are no express or implied warranties of merchantability or
fitness for a particular purpose, or that the use of the software will not
infringe any patent, copyright, trademark, or other proprietary rights, or that
the software will accomplish the intended results or that the software or its
use will not result in injury or damage.  The user assumes responsibility for
all liabilities, penalties, fines, claims, causes of action, and costs and
expenses, caused by, resulting from or arising out of, in whole or in part the
use, storage or disposal of the software.

Additionally, redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or
without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:
* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
  list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
* Neither the name of Los Alamos National Security, LLC, Los Alamos National
  Laboratory, LANL, the U.S. Government, nor the names of its contributors may
  be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
  specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL SECURITY, LLC AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL SECURITY, LLC OR
CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT
OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY
OF SUCH DAMAGE.
