.. _osnap_t_s:

OSNAP Temperature Salinity and Velocity Climatology
===================================================

Description
-----------
OSNAP is designed to provide a continuous record of the full-water
column, trans-basin fluxes of heat, mass and freshwater in the subpolar
North Atlantic. It consists of two legs: one extending from southern
Labrador to the southwestern tip of Greenland across the mouth of the
Labrador Sea (OSNAP West), and the second from the southeastern tip of
Greenland to Scotland (OSNAP East). The observing system also includes
subsurface floats (OSNAP Floats) in order to trace the pathways of
overflow waters in the basin and to assess the connectivity of currents
crossing the OSNAP line. The location of the OSNAP East and West legs
purposefully melds with a number of long-term observational efforts in
the North Atlantic: the Canadian repeat AR7W program in the Labrador
Sea; the German Labrador Sea western boundary array at 53°N; the
global Ocean Observatories Initiative node to be placed in the
southwestern Irminger Sea; the repeat A1E/AR7E hydrographic sections
across the Irminger and Iceland basins; and the Ellett line in the
Rockall region. Importantly, this observing system, in conjunction with
the RAPID/MOCHA array at 26ºN and the EU THOR/NACLIM program, will
provide a comprehensive measure of the Atlantic Meridional Overturning
Circulation (AMOC) and provide a means to evaluate intergyre
connectivity in the North Atlantic. OSNAP is a collaborative effort,
which includes several countries including US, Canada, China, France,
Germany, Netherlands and the UK.

Source
------
`Overturning in the Subpolar North Atlantic Program (OSNAP) website`_

Release Policy
--------------
Acknowledgment: OSNAP data were collected and made freely available by the OSNAP (Overturning in the Subpolar North Atlantic Program) project and all the national programs that contribute to it (www.o-snap.org).

References
----------


MPAS-Analysis Tasks
-------------------
- :ref:`task_osnapTransects`

.. _`Overturning in the Subpolar North Atlantic Program (OSNAP) website`: https://www.o-snap.org/data-access/

